What is synchronization of it and by synchronization of threads that let's look at a simple problem
so you have this method.
So this is the method.
It's a very simple method.
So we have we're setting a value into cell 1 cell 2 and 3 and we're adding them and returning it back.
But we have sleep for some time in between.
So in each of these we are actually sleeping for sometime in between let's say this method is called
in two different threads.
So if this method is called in two different threads then really funny things can happen.
So what would happen is the thread one has completed setting cell one cell to and self-id the threat
and Dig's discussion has shifted to thread.
And what that thread did is it came in and it said de-value for cell 1.
So we have value for cell 1 which is set by the thread to add the value for self to ancillary which
is said by Thread 1.
So what would happen when thread when exiguous cell one player said to split cell 3 it will lose this
one value which was said by thread 2.
So what other value which trade one set that was all were didn't because these traits are executing
concurrently they are overriding the values which are said by one another and this is a very bad scenario
because the trade when it thinks it asset value properly and it tries to sum them up.
But actually the value which was set in Selborne is de-value which is currently in sell when is the
value which is said by threat 2.
And this can result in errors and a lot of bugs.
The way you can prevent multiple threats from executing the same method is by using the synchronized
keyword.
So when I put a synchronized key word on a method then what would happen.
Only one thread can be executing this.
So once a thread is executed if thread when it's executing in the specific code then it will not be
able to do anything so we'll come here see this method is synchronized.
OK.
I can't run it.
It will.
Wait wait wait until Tredwell completes execution.
In this example we are using synchronized keyword or up method.
So we are putting the synchronized keyword before the method.
So this would be a synchronized method.
And if I have then synchronized methods in a class then only one thread can at that time be executing
any of those methods.
All the other threads which want to exclude any other method which is synchronized have to wait within
a class.
There can only be one thread that's executing any of the synchronized code in that particular case.
There is another concept called a synchronized block.
Typically we use Tinkler's before method the synchronized word synchronized example.
Or you can also have specific code in the method to be synchronized so let's say there is a hundred
lines of code and I want only five lines of code to be synchronized.
I can you think is this around this specific thing.
Can a static method be synchronized.
Yes.
You can synchronize a static method as well however the synchronized civilization on the static but
that is more at the class level it's not really at the instance level.
Let's say I have to threat threat two and three.
Three and I would want to read four to start only after three three completed execution thread to thread
three.
And I wanted four to start only after three completed execution.
So I'm kicking off thread tree I'm picking up thread 2 and I'm calling thread three the join.
What basically happened here is what you call three or join this court will wait for thread three to
complete and only after the three three is completed we would kick off the thread.
So join is basically to wait for a specific thread to complete execution.
You can also use our time line.
So here I am saying I would want to wait for 200 milliseconds or the end of execution of third for let's
say the trade for did not complete execution.
I mean the threat for the not complete execution by two thousand milliseconds then it would the execution
would proceed to the next line.
There are a lot of important matters in threat.
Take a few of them and look at them in here.
Trade he'll admit that he is one of the static methods in the class.
He is basically a threat saying OK I have enough execution time.
So please select another thread for execution.
So what would happen is when a thread called better than the state of the test would go from running
to reasonable.
However if there are no threads no other thread which are of higher priority then the scheduler might
be the same thread for running again.
The other method is read sleep better.
The sleep method makes that trade goes into going to sleep board or a wait mode for a specified number
of a specified amount of time typically you specified the amount of time in milliseconds.
What is it that look at there is a situation when to thread neutrally are waiting for each other.
So if one is waiting for Thread 2 and thread 2 is waiting for Thread 1 then the situation is called
a deadlock because they would keep waiting for ever.
It can be even bigger kind of a cycle so that it is waiting for thread to thread is waiting for 3 3
3 3 is waiting for Thread 1.
So that's a bigger cycle but it's still a deadlock.
So what are the important methods in Java for integrate communication.
The product that's out of date notify and notify all deviate and ignore payment that is usually used
in combination.
What happens is if I call it bait method on the thread then on building or Diplomatique is called on
it it would keep waiting.
So when I call a wait method then it's basically saying I'll wait for another thread to notify me until
I start execution.
So this is how you do it right.
Wait and notify is how it's shown in here.
If more than one thread is waiting for an object you can also use notify all to know different all the
threats which are waiting.
So let's now look at a program where we would use most of the things that we discussed previously.
Until we have been discussing things theoretically let's kind of try and run a program which would make
it interesting more interesting for us.
I have a class called calculator.
And if you see this calculator extends thread and there is a run method in here.
And inside the synchronized block I'm also doing a note for and inside the main method what we're doing
is we are creating an instance of the thread and doing that thread start and we are waiting on the thread.
So we're calling at Red Dot vate as well.
What would happen is the main method would start waiting for the thread to give it didn't notify signals
so you'd see that in here you're seeing that when I run the program the main method they put the bad
execution of the run in the calculator and then wait for the notify one to notify is called the Main
method.
Stop waiting and it would start executing this code.
Let's see what would happen if this line was not there.
So let's come in out the whole block from here to here.
What would you do that would be printed.
I mean when I add up all these integers from 0 to 9 9 9 9 The result should be this.
But here I am not doing vate for that specific thread.
You would see what is the main method printing its printing is zero.
Why.
Because it's not waiting for the other thread to complete the execution.
I really want the main method to wait until the other thread completes execution until the calculated
threat exit execute.
So I would want to wait for the thread.
I would want to have a notify and only then complete the execution.
So if you run this enough you are actually waiting.
So the man is actually waiting for the train to complete execution.
That's better not wait.
And then you can print the result of the song.
So that's interesting.
I mean that's how you can have multiple threat to communicate with each other.
So you have a threat called Main from which you are kicking off that thread called calculator and you
are trying to communicate between them by using the vate and didn't know if it would cause a lot of
examples of a threat.
Executer service and the methods said threat in this specific video what I recommend you to do is to
take a look at the trade examples class so as an exercise I would recommend you to take the trade examples
class and you can look at all the things which are present in here and you can try and run the program
and try and understand why and how the output is getting generated.
So I would really recommend you to do that because it would really give you a good understanding of
what happens behind that.
So threat examples thread wait and notify two things.
Two classes that you can look at at the end of this review.
Thanks a lot for watching.
And in the next step.
Bullae.